Purpose of Domain Validation (take 2) and one-off vs persistent (#172)
ietf-wg-dnsop/draft-ietf-dnsop-domain-verification-techniques: draft-ietf-dnsop-domain-verification-techniques.md

* `Random Token`: a random value that uniquely identifies the DNS domain control validation challenge, defined in {{random-token}}.

# Purpose of Domain Control Validation {#purpose}

Domain Control Validation allows a User to demonstrate to an Application Service Provider that they have enough control over a domain to place a DNS challenge provided by Application Service Provider into the domain. Because the challenge becomes publically visible as soon as it is placed into the DNS, the security properties rely on the causal relationship between the Application Service Provider generating a specific challenge and the challenge appearing in the DNS at a specified location. Domain Control Validation can be used either as a one-off or for a persistent validation depending on the application scenario:

* As a one-off validation, the Validation Record is time-bound and it can be removed once its presence is confirmed by the Application Service Provider. These are appropriate when the validation is being performed as part of an action such as requesting certificate issuance.

> * As a persistent validation, the introduction of the Validation Record into the domain demonstrates to the Application Service Provider that the User had control over the domain at that time, and its continued presence demonstrates only that either the DNS Administrator of the domain has not chosen to remove the Validation Record or that a new owner of the domain has re-introduced the Validation Record. The validation can be revoked by removing the Validation Record although this revocation will not be noticed until the Application Service Provider next checks for the presence of the record.

Author: Changing to:

```suggestion
* As a persistent validation, the introduction of the Validation Record into the domain demonstrates to the Application Service Provider that the User had control over the domain at that time, and its continued presence demonstrates only that either the DNS Administrator of the domain has left the Validation Record in-place (perhaps by unintentionally) or that a new owner of the domain has re-introduced the Validation Record. The validation can be revoked by removing the Validation Record although this revocation will not be noticed until the Application Service Provider next checks for the presence of the record.
```

> Persistent validation is only appropriate for applications where the validation is tightly coupled to the User at the Application Service Provider, as once a token is disclosed there is no guarantee that it hasn't been copied by the new owner of a domain.

Author: I'm adding:

> Application Service Providers MAY monitor for changes in domain ownership and request re-confirmation via a new token.

Down in the "Time-bounded checking and expiration" section around persistent validation.

> ## DNS Spoofing

Reviewer: This section and the following one seem to contain some redundant text.

Author: Collapsing these into one section:

> ## DNS Spoofing and DNSSEC Validation
> 
> A domain owner SHOULD sign their DNS zone using DNSSEC {{RFC9364}} to protect Validation Records against DNS spoofing attacks, including from on-path attackers.
> 
> DNSSEC validation SHOULD be performed by Application Service Providers that verify Validation Records they have requested to be deployed.
> 
> If no DNSSEC support is detected for the domain being validated, or if DNSSEC validation cannot be performed, Application Service Providers SHOULD attempt to query and confirm the Validation Record by matching responses from multiple DNS resolvers on unpredictable geographically diverse IP addresses to reduce an attacker's ability to complete a challenge by spoofing DNS. Alternatively, Application Service Providers MAY perform multiple queries spread out over a longer time period to reduce the chance of receiving spoofed DNS answers.
> 
> DNS Spoofing attacks are easier in the case of persistent validation as the expected result is publically known. For example, absent DNSSEC this could allow an on-path attacker to bypass a revocation by continuing to return a record that the DNS Operator had removed from the zone.
>

Application Service Providers and intermediaries should use authenticated channels to convey instructions and random tokens to Users. Otherwise, an attacker in the middle could alter the instructions, potentially allowing the attacker to provision the service instead of the User.

## DNS Spoofing and DNSSEC Validation

A domain owner SHOULD sign their DNS zone using DNSSEC {{RFC9364}} to protect Validation Records against DNS spoofing attacks, including from on-path attackers.

DNSSEC validation SHOULD be performed by Application Service Providers that verify Validation Records they have requested to be deployed.

> If no DNSSEC support is detected for the domain being validated, or if DNSSEC validation cannot be performed, Application Service Providers SHOULD attempt to query and confirm the Validation Record by matching responses from multiple DNS resolvers on unpredictable geographically diverse IP addresses to reduce an attacker's ability to complete a challenge by spoofing DNS. Alternatively, Application Service Providers MAY perform multiple queries spread out over a longer time period to reduce the chance of receiving spoofed DNS answers.

Reviewer 2: Can we also recommend something along the lines of "should be present for at least X hours", so in the case of route injection, it would have to be a sustained attack and not just a reroute for a few seconds or minutes.

* Application Service Providers SHOULD NOT allow verification of ownership for domains which are public suffixes in the "ICANN" division. For example, "\_service-challenge.co.uk" would not be allowed.
* Application Service Providers MAY allow verification of ownership for domains which are public suffixes in the "PRIVATE" division, although it would be preferable to apply additional safety checks in this case.

## Unintentional Persistence

When persistent domain validation is used, a DNS Administrator failing to remove a no-longer desired Validation Record could enable a User to continue to have access to the domain.

> When one-off domain validation is used, this is typically implemented through automation and a DNS Administrator failing to remove access to the User could enable the User to continue to perform new validations.

Author: New text:

```suggestion
When one-off domain validation is used, this is typically implemented through automation where a DNS Administrator grants the User access to make updates to the domain's zone configuration. If the DNS Administrator fails to revoke access to a User who should no longer have access, this would enable the User to continue to perform new validations.
```

## Reintroduction of Validation Records

> When a domain has a new owner, that new owner could add a Validation Record that was present in the previous version of the domain. In the case of persistent validation this could be used to claim that the original User still has access to the domain. Applications implementing persistent domain validation need to include this risk within their threat model.

Author: I think your proposed fix above works here as well:

```suggestion
When a domain has a new owner, that new owner could add a Validation Record that was present in the previous version of the domain. In the case of persistent validation this could be used to claim that the original User still has access to the domain within the Application Service Provider's service. Applications implementing persistent domain validation need to include this risk within their threat model.
```
